## Legacy TSDuck documentation

[TSDuck](https://tsduck.io/) is an extensible toolkit for MPEG transport streams.
The main source code is in the [tsduck/tsduck](https://github.com/tsduck/tsduck)
repository.

The [tsduck/tsduck-legacy-doc](https://github.com/tsduck/tsduck-legacy-doc)
repository contains former TSDuck documentation which is now considered as legacy.
This repository is mostly read-only and available for reference only.

### History

Originally, the TSDuck user's guide was maintained using Microsoft Word and the
programmer's guide was mixed with the Doxygen set of files.

Microsoft Office files are binary files. Unlike text files, binary files are handled
by git in a very inefficient way. Each time a binary file is updated, a full copy is
added to the git history (instead of small text differences in the case of text files).

The User's Guide was typically updated each time something as small as a new option was
implemented. Each time, a full copy of the Word file was added in the repository.
Additionally, because a user may use Linux or may not have a Microsoft Office license,
the PDF version was also archived in the repository, so that users may get it without
rebuilding it.

As a result, the history of the TSDuck git repository became huge. The .git subdirectory
was 2 GB big. The vast majority of this was made of Word and PDF files. A full git clone
of the repository was quite long and used excessive network and disk resources.

Let's be honest, using Microsoft Word for documenting a project in a git repository was
a really, really, stupid idea.

Therefore, all TSDuck user and developer documentation was migrated to Asciidoc, a text
format, vaguely derived from markdown. The document can be modular from multiple files
which include each other.

The tool Asciidoctor can generate HTML and PDF output from the set of source files.
The HTML output is quite satisfactory. The PDF output is correct, but a bit less than
those which were generated by Microsoft Word.

Because Asciidoctor is a free open source tool which can be used on Linux, macOS, and
Windows, the documents can be rebuilt by anyone, anywhere. Therefore, the git repository
now contains only the text source files for the documentation. HTML and PDF are rebuilt
as part of the project build, just like the binaries for the commands and plugins.

The history of the TSDuck main repository was "rewritten" (a feature of git) and purged
from all Microsoft Word and PDF files. The last version of the purged documents is
kept as reference is the [tsduck/tsduck-legacy-doc](https://github.com/tsduck/tsduck-legacy-doc)
repository.

### License

TSDuck is distributed under the terms of the Simplified BSD License.
See the file `LICENSE.txt` for details.

*Copyright (c) 2005-2024, Thierry Lelegard*<br/>
*All rights reserved*
